**Question 1**

Which of the following SQL statements adds a $2.00 service fee to the total price in a table called "Orders", that lists the price of orders customers placed with a store?

- SELECT total + 2 FROM Orders;

- SELECT total + 2 FROM Orders TABLE;

- SELECT total + 2 FROM the Orders TABLE;

**Question 2**

What does the following SQL statement do?

`SELECT total / 2 FROM Orders;`

- It returns the value of total price column in the second row.

- It returns the result of total price divided by 2 for each cell in the total price column

**Question 3**

The following SQL statement returns 2 percent of the total price:

`SELECT total % 2 FROM Orders;`

- False

- True

**Question 4**

Which of the following SQL statements returns 50% of the total price? Choose all correct answers.

- SELECT total \* 50 FROM Orders;
-
- SELECT total \* 0.5 FROM Orders;
-
- SELECT total / 2 FROM Orders;
-
- SELECT total / 50% FROM Orders;

**Question 5**

Select the right SQL statement to display the values of the total prices that are greater than $140.

- SELECT total FROM Orders WHERE total >= 140;

- SELECT total FROM Orders WHERE total < 140;

- SELECT total FROM Orders WHERE total > 140;

**Question 6**

Does the following SQL statements sort the result-set of the total prices in ascending or descending order?

`SELECT * FROM Orders ORDER BY total;`

- Ascending

- Descending

**Question 7**

The following SQL statement filters data based on

`SELECT \* FROM customers WHERE Country = "Germany";`

- 'Germany' column with 'country' value

- 'Country' column with 'Germany' value

**Question 8**

In SQL you can sort records in descending order using the DESCENDING keyword.

- False

- True

**Question 9**

The output of the following SQL query within the Orders table is: UK, UK, UK, France, France, Finland

`SELECT DISTINCT Country FROM Orders;`

- True

- False

**Question 10**

What does the following SQL statement do?

`SELECT * FROM Orders ORDER BY country, total;`

- Orders the result by country and ignores the total price.

- Orders the result by country first then total price.
