### Constructors

JavaScript has a number of built-in object types, such as:

`Math`, `Date`, `Object`, `Function`, `Boolean`, `Symbol`, `Array`, `Map`, `Set`, `Promise`, `JSON`, etc.

These objects are sometimes referred to as "native objects".

Constructor functions, commonly referred to as just "constructors", are special functions that allow us to build instances of these built-in native objects. All the constructors are capitalized.

To use a constructor function, I must prepend it with the operator `new`.
For example, to create a new instance of the Date object, I can run: `new Date()`.\
What I get back is the current datetime, such as:

`Thu Feb 03 2022 11:24:08 GMT+0100 (Central European Standard Time)`

However, not all the **built-in objects** come with a constructor function. An example of such an object type is the built-in Math object.

Running `new Math()` throws an Uncaught TypeError, informing us that Math is not a constructor.

Thus, I can conclude that some built-in objects do have constructors when they serve a particular purpose: to allow us to instantiate a specific instance of a given object's constructor.

The built-in Date object is perfectly suited for having a constructor because each new date object instance I build should have unique data by definition since it's going to be a different timestamp it's going to be built at a different moment in time.

Other built-in objects that don't have constructors, such as the Math object don't need a constructor. They're just static objects whose properties and methods can be accessed directly, from the built-in object itself.\
In other words, there is no point in building an instance of the built-in Math object to be able to use its functionality.

For example, if I want to use the pow method of the Math object to calculate exponential values: to get the number 2 to the power of 5, I'd run:

`Math.pow(2,5); // --> 32`

There's no need to build an instance of the Math object since there would be nothing that needs to be stored in that specific object's instance.
Besides constructor functions for the built-in objects, I can also define custom constructor functions.
Here's an example:

```js
function Icecream(flavor) {
  this.flavor = flavor;
  this.meltIt = function () {
    console.log(`The ${this.flavor} icecream has melted`);
  };
}
```

Now I can make as many icecreams as I want:

```js
function Icecream(flavor) {
  this.flavor = flavor;
  this.meltIt = function () {
    console.log(`The ${this.flavor} icecream has melted`);
  };
}

let kiwiIcecream = new Icecream("kiwi");
let appleIcecream = new Icecream("apple");
kiwiIcecream; // Icecream {flavor: 'kiwi', meltIt: ƒ}flavor: "kiwi"meltIt: ƒ ()[[Prototype]]: Object
appleIcecream; // Icecream {flavor: 'apple', meltIt: ƒ}flavor: "apple"meltIt: ƒ ()[[Prototype]]: Object
appleIcecream.meltIt(); // The apple icecream has melted
```

I've just built two instance objects of Icecream type. The most common use case of new is to use it with one of the built-in object types.  
**Note that using constructor functions on all built-in objects is sometimes not the best approach. This is especially true for object constructors of primitive types, namely: String, Number, and Boolean.**

For example, using the built-in String constructor, I can build new strings:

```js
let apple = new String("apple");
apple; // --> String {'apple'}
```

The apple variable is an object of type String. Let's see how the apple object differs from the following pear variable:

```js
let pear = "pear";
pear; // --> "pear"
```

The pear variable is a string literal, that is, a primitive Javascript value. The pear variable, being a primitive value, will always be more performant than the apple variable, which is an object.

Besides being more performant, due to the fact that each object in JavaScript is unique, you can't compare a String object with another String object, even when their values are identical.
In other words, if you compare `new String('plum') === new String('plum')`, you'll get back `false`,

while `"plum" === "plum"` returns `true`. You're getting the false when comparing objects <span style="color: #C63; font-weight: bold;">
Because it is not the values that you pass to the constructor that are being compared, But rather the memory location where objects are saved. </span>

Besides not using constructors to build object versions of primitives,
**You are better off not using constructors when constructing plain, regular objects. Instead of new Object, you should stick to the object literal syntax: {}.**

A RegExp object is another built-in object in JavaScript. It's used to pattern-match strings using what's known as "Regular Expressions". Regular Expressions exist in many languages, not just JavaScript.
In JavaScript, you can built an instance of the RegExp constructor using new RegExp. Alternatively, you can use a pattern literal instead of RegExp. Here's an example of using `/d/` as a pattern literal, passed-in as an argument to the match method on a string.

```js
"abcd".match(/d/); // ['d', index: 3, input: 'abcd', groups: undefined]
"abcd".match(/a/); // ['a', index: 0, input: 'abcd', groups: undefined]
```

Instead of using Array, Function, and RegExp constructors, you should use their array literal, function literal, and pattern literal varieties: `[]`, `()`, `{}`, and `/()/`.

However, when building objects of other built-in types, we can use the constructor. Here are a few examples:

```js
new Date();
new Error();
new Map();
new Promise();
new Set();
new WeakSet();
new WeakMap();
```

Here's the entire completed code for this lesson:

```js
class Train {
  constructor(color, lightsOn) {
    this.color = color;
    this.lightsOn = lightsOn;
  }
  toggleLights() {
    this.lightsOn = !this.lightsOn;
  }
  lightsStatus() {
    console.log("Lights on?", this.lightsOn);
  }
  getSelf() {
    console.log(this);
  }
  getPrototype() {
    var proto = Object.getPrototypeOf(this);
    console.log(proto);
  }
}

class HighSpeedTrain extends Train {
  constructor(passengers, highSpeedOn, color, lightsOn) {
    super(color, lightsOn);
    this.passengers = passengers;
    this.highSpeedOn = highSpeedOn;
  }
  toggleHighSpeed() {
    this.highSpeedOn = !this.highSpeedOn;
    console.log("High speed status:", this.highSpeedOn);
  }
  toggleLights() {
    super.toggleLights();
    super.lightsStatus();
    console.log("Lights are 100% operational.");
  }
}

var myFirstTrain = new Train("red", false);
console.log(myFirstTrain); // Train {color: 'red', lightsOn: false}
var mySecondTrain = new Train("blue", false);
var myThirdTrain = new Train("blue", false);

var train4 = new Train("red", false);
train4.toggleLights(); // undefined
train4.lightsStatus(); // Lights on? true
train4.getSelf(); // Train {color: 'red', lightsOn: true}
train4.getPrototype(); // {constructor: f, toggleLights: f, ligthsStatus: f, getSelf: f, getPrototype: f}

var train5 = new Train("blue", false);
var highSpeed1 = new HighSpeedTrain(200, false, "green", false);

train5.toggleLights(); // undefined
train5.lightsStatus(); // Lights on? true
highSpeed1.toggleLights(); // Lights on? true, Lights are 100% operational.
```

Notice how the `toggleLights()` method behaves differently on the `HighSpeedTrain` class than it does on the `Train` class.  
Additionally, it helps to visualize what is happening by getting the prototype of both the `train5` and the `highSpeed1` trains:  
```js
train5.getPrototype(); // {constructor: ƒ, toggleLights: ƒ, lightsStatus: ƒ, getSelf: ƒ, getPrototype: ƒ}␍
highSpeed1.getPrototype(); // Train {constructor: ƒ, toggleHighSpeed: ƒ, toggleLights: ƒ}
```
The returned values in this case might initially seem a bit tricky to comprehend, but actually, it is quite simple:

* The prototype object of the `train5` object was created when you defined the class `Train`. You can access the prototype using `Train.prototype` syntax and get the prototype object back.
```js
console.log(Train.prototype)
  // Object { … }
      // constructor: class Train { constructor(color, lightsOn) }
      // getPrototype: function getPrototype()
      // getSelf: function getSelf()
      // lightsStatus: function lightsStatus()
      // toggleLights: function toggleLights()
      // <prototype>: Object { … }
```
* The prototype object of the `highSpeed1` object is this object:
```js
{constructor: ƒ, toggleHighSpeed: ƒ, toggleLights: ƒ}.  
```
In turn this object **has its own prototype**, which can be found using the following syntax:  
```js
`HighSpeedTrain.prototype.__proto__.`  
// {constructor: ƒ, toggleLights: ƒ, lightsStatus: ƒ, getSelf: ƒ, getPrototype: ƒ}.
```

### Using class instance as another class' constructor's property   
Consider the following example:

```js
class StationaryBike {
  constructor(position, gears) {
    this.position = position;
    this.gears = gears;
  }
}

class Treadmill {
  constructor(position, modes) {
    this.position = position;
    this.modes = modes;
  }
}

class Gym {
  constructor(openHrs, stationaryBikePos, treadmillPos) {
    this.openHrs = openHrs;
    this.stationaryBike = new StationaryBike(stationaryBikePos, 8);
    this.treadmill = new Treadmill(treadmillPos, 5);
  }
}

var boxingGym = new Gym("7-22", "right corner", "left corner");

console.log(boxingGym.openHrs) //
console.log(boxingGym.stationaryBike) //
console.log(boxingGym.treadmill) //
```
In this example, there are three classes defined: `StationaryBike`, `Treadmill`, and `Gym`.

The `StationaryBike` class is coded so that its future object instance will have the position and gears properties. The position property describes where the stationary bike will be placed inside the gym, and the gears property gives the number of gears that that stationary bike should have.  
The Treadmill class also has a position, and another property, named modes (as in "exercise modes").
The Gym class has three parameters in its constructor function: openHrs, stationaryBikePos, treadmillPos.  
This code allows me to instantiate a new instance object of the Gym class, and then when I inspect it, I get the following information:  
- the `openHrs` property is equal to "7-22" (that is, 7am to 10pm)
- the `stationaryBike` property is an object of the `StationaryBike` type, containing two properties: position and gears
- the `treadmill` property is an object of the `Treadmill` type, containing two properties: position and modes

## Default Parameters

A useful a ES6 feature allows me to set a default parameter inside a function definition

For example, consider a function declaration without default parameters set:

```js
function noDefaultParams(number) {
    console.log('Result:', number * number)
}
```
Obviously, the `noDefaultParams` function should return whatever number it receives, squared.

However, what if I call it like this:

`noDefaultParams(); // Result: NaN`

JavaScript, due to its dynamic nature, doesn't throw an error, but it does return a non-sensical output.

Consider now, the following improvement, using default parameters:

```js
function withDefaultParams(number = 10) {
    console.log('Result:', number * number)
}
```
Default params allow me to build a function that will run with default argument values even if I don't pass it any arguments, while still being flexible enough to allow me to pass custom argument values and deal with them accordingly.

This now allows me to code my classes in a way that will promote easier object instantiation.

Consider the following class definition:

```js
class NoDefaultParams {
    constructor(num1, num2, num3, string1, bool1) {
        this.num1 = num1;
        this.num2 = num2;
        this.num3 = num3;
        this.string1 = string1;
        this.bool1 = bool1;
    }
    calculate() {
        if(this.bool1) {
            console.log(this.string1, this.num1 + this.num2 + this.num3);
            return;
        }
        return "The value of bool1 is incorrect"
    }
}
```
Now I'll instantiate an object of the `NoDefaultParams` class, and run the `calculate()` method on it. Obviously, the `bool1` should be set to true on invocation to make this work, but I'll set it to false on purpose, to highlight the point I'm making.

```js
var fail = new NoDefaultParams(1,2,3,false);
fail.calculate(); // 'The value of bool1 is incorrect'
```
This example might highlight the reason sometimes weird error messages appear when some software is used - perhaps the developers just didn't have enough time to build it better.

However, now that you know about default parameters, this example can be improved as follows:

```js
class WithDefaultParams {
    constructor(num1 = 1, num2 = 2, num3 = 3, string1 = "Result:", bool1 = true) {
        this.num1 = num1;
        this.num2 = num2;
        this.num3 = num3;
        this.string1 = string1;
        this.bool1 = bool1;
    }
    calculate() {
        if(this.bool1) {
            console.log(this.string1, this.num1 + this.num2 + this.num3);
            return;
        }
        return "The value of bool1 is incorrect"
    }
}
var better = new WithDefaultParams();
better.calculate(); // Result: 6

```
This approach improves the developer experience of my code, because I no longer have to worry about feeding the `WithDefaultParameters` class with all the arguments. For quick tests, this is great, because I no longer need to worry about passing the proper arguments.

Additionally, this approach really shines when building inheritance hierarchies using classes, as it makes it possible to provide only the custom properties in the sub-class, while still accepting all the default parameters from the super-class constructor.
