# Data Types in JS

[Data structures](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Data_structures)

### Beware of "stringly-typing" your code!

It can be tempting to use strings to represent complex data. Doing this comes with short-term benefits:

- It is easy to build complex strings with concatenation.
- Strings are easy to debug (what you see printed is always what is in the string).
- Strings are the common denominator of a lot of APIs (input fields, local storage values, fetch() responses when using Response.text(), etc.) and it can be tempting to only work with strings.

With conventions, it is possible to represent any data structure in a string. This does not make it a good idea. For instance, with a separator, one could emulate a list (while a JavaScript array would be more suitable). Unfortunately, when the separator is used in one of the "list" elements, then, the list is broken. An escape character can be chosen, etc. All of this requires conventions and creates an unnecessary maintenance burden.

Use strings for textual data. When representing complex data, parse strings, and use the appropriate abstraction.

**Symbol type**

A Symbol is a unique and immutable primitive value and may be used as the key of an Object property (see below). In some programming languages, Symbols are called "atoms". The purpose of symbols is to create unique property keys that are guaranteed not to clash with keys from other code.

## Objects 
 
In computer science, an object is a value in memory which is possibly referenced by an identifier. In JavaScript, objects are the only mutable values. Functions are, in fact, also objects with the additional capability of being callable.
Properties

In JavaScript, objects can be seen as a collection of properties. With the object literal syntax, a limited set of properties are initialized; then properties can be added and removed. Object properties are equivalent to key-value pairs. Property keys are either strings or symbols. When other types (such as numbers) are used to index objects, the values are implicitly converted to strings. Property values can be values of any type, including other objects, which enables building complex data structures.

There are two types of object properties: The data property and the accessor property. Each property has corresponding attributes. Each attribute is accessed internally by the JavaScript engine, but you can set them through Object.defineProperty(), or read them through `Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor()`. You can read more about the various nuances on the `Object.defineProperty()` page.

### Data property

Data properties associate a key with a value. It can be described by the following attributes:

**value**  

- The value retrieved by a get access of the property. Can be any JavaScript value.  
**writable**  

- A boolean value indicating if the property can be changed with an assignment.  
**enumerable**  

- A boolean value indicating if the property can be enumerated by a for...in loop. See also Enumerability and ownership of properties for how enumerability interacts with other functions and syntaxes.  

**configurable**  

- A boolean value indicating if the property can be deleted, can be changed to an accessor property, and can have its attributes changed.

### Accessor property

Associates a key with one of two accessor functions (get and set) to retrieve or store a value.

Note: It's important to recognize it's accessor property — not accessor method. We can give a JavaScript object class-like accessors by using a function as a value — but that doesn't make the object a class.

An accessor property has the following attributes:

**get**

- A function called with an empty argument list to retrieve the property value whenever a get access to the value is performed. See also getters. May be undefined.
**set**

- A function called with an argument that contains the assigned value. Executed whenever a specified property is attempted to be changed. See also setters. May be undefined.
**enumerable**

- A boolean value indicating if the property can be enumerated by a for...in loop. See also Enumerability and ownership of properties for how enumerability interacts with other functions and syntaxes.
**configurable**

- A boolean value indicating if the property can be deleted, can be changed to a data property, and can have its attributes changed.

The prototype of an object points to another object or to null — it's conceptually a hidden property of the object, commonly represented as [[Prototype]]. Properties of the object's [[Prototype]] can also be accessed on the object itself.

Objects are ad-hoc key-value pairs, so they are often used as maps. However, there can be ergonomics, security, and performance issues. Use a Map for storing arbitrary data instead. The Map reference contains a more detailed discussion of the pros & cons between plain objects and maps for storing key-value associations.

### Dates

JavaScript provides two sets of APIs for representing dates: the legacy Date object and the modern Temporal object. Date has many undesirable design choices and should be avoided in new code if possible.

**Indexed collections: Arrays and typed Arrays**

Arrays are regular objects for which there is a particular relationship between integer-keyed properties and the length property.

Additionally, arrays inherit from Array.prototype, which provides a handful of convenient methods to manipulate arrays. For example, indexOf() searches a value in the array and push() appends an element to the array. This makes Arrays a perfect candidate to represent ordered lists.

Typed Arrays present an array-like view of an underlying binary data buffer, and offer many methods that have similar semantics to the array counterparts. "Typed array" is an umbrella term for a range of data structures, including Int8Array, Float32Array, etc. Check the typed array page for more information. Typed arrays are often used in conjunction with ArrayBuffer and DataView.

### Keyed collections: Maps, Sets, WeakMaps, WeakSets

These data structures take object references as keys. Set and WeakSet represent a collection of unique values, while Map and WeakMap represent a collection of key-value associations.

You could implement Maps and Sets yourself. However, since objects cannot be compared (in the sense of < "less than", for instance), neither does the engine expose its hash function for objects, look-up performance would necessarily be linear. Native implementations of them (including WeakMaps) can have look-up performance that is approximately logarithmic to constant time.

Usually, to bind data to a DOM node, one could set properties directly on the object, or use data-* attributes. This has the downside that the data is available to any script running in the same context. Maps and WeakMaps make it easy to privately bind data to an object.

WeakMap and WeakSet only allow garbage-collectable values as keys, which are either objects or non-registered symbols, and the keys may be collected even when they remain in the collection. They are specifically used for memory usage optimization.
Structured data: JSON

JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) is a lightweight data-interchange format, derived from JavaScript, but used by many programming languages. JSON builds universal data structures that can be transferred between different environments and even across languages. See JSON for more details.
More objects in the standard library

JavaScript has a standard library of built-in objects. Read the reference to find out more about the built-in objects.

## Type coercion

As mentioned above, JavaScript is a weakly typed language. This means that you can often use a value of one type where another type is expected, and the language will convert it to the right type for you. To do so, JavaScript defines a handful of coercion rules.

### Primitive coercion

The primitive coercion process is used where a primitive value is expected, but there's no strong preference for what the actual type should be. This is usually when a string, a number, or a BigInt are equally acceptable. For example:

- The Date() constructor, when it receives one argument that's not a Date instance — strings represent date strings, while numbers represent timestamps.
- The + operator — if one operand is a string, string concatenation is performed; otherwise, numeric addition is performed.
- The == operator — if one operand is a primitive while the other is an object, the object is converted to a primitive value with no preferred type.

This operation does not do any conversion if the value is already a primitive. Objects are converted to primitives by calling its [Symbol.toPrimitive]() (with "default" as hint), valueOf(), and toString() methods, in that order. Note that primitive conversion calls valueOf() before toString(), which is similar to the behavior of number coercion but different from string coercion.

The [Symbol.toPrimitive]() method, if present, must return a primitive — returning an object results in a TypeError. For valueOf() and toString(), if one returns an object, the return value is ignored and the other's return value is used instead; if neither is present, or neither returns a primitive, a TypeError is thrown. For example, in the following code:

```js
console.log({} + []); // "[object Object]"
```

Neither {} nor [] have a [Symbol.toPrimitive]() method. Both {} and [] inherit valueOf() from Object.prototype.valueOf, which returns the object itself. Since the return value is an object, it is ignored. Therefore, toString() is called instead. {}.toString() returns "[object Object]", while [].toString() returns "", so the result is their concatenation: "[object Object]".

The [Symbol.toPrimitive]() method always takes precedence when doing conversion to any primitive type. Primitive conversion generally behaves like number conversion, because valueOf() is called in priority; however, objects with custom [Symbol.toPrimitive]() methods can choose to return any primitive. Date and Symbol objects are the only built-in objects that override the [Symbol.toPrimitive]() method. Date.prototype[Symbol.toPrimitive]() treats the "default" hint as if it's "string", while Symbol.prototype[Symbol.toPrimitive]() ignores the hint and always returns a symbol.

### Numeric coercion

There are two numeric types: Number and BigInt. Sometimes the language specifically expects a number or a BigInt (such as Array.prototype.slice(), where the index must be a number); other times, it may tolerate either and perform different operations depending on the operand's type. For strict coercion processes that do not allow implicit conversion from the other type, see number coercion and BigInt coercion.

Numeric coercion is nearly the same as number coercion, except that BigInts are returned as-is instead of causing a TypeError. Numeric coercion is used by all arithmetic operators, since they are overloaded for both numbers and BigInts. The only exception is unary plus, which always does number coercion.

### Other coercions

All data types, except Null, Undefined, and Symbol, have their respective coercion process. See string coercion, boolean coercion, and object coercion for more details.

As you may have noticed, there are three distinct paths through which objects may be converted to primitives:

- Primitive coercion: [Symbol.toPrimitive]("default") → valueOf() → toString()
- Numeric coercion, number coercion, BigInt coercion: [Symbol.toPrimitive]("number") → valueOf() → toString()
- String coercion: [Symbol.toPrimitive]("string") → toString() → valueOf()

In all cases, [Symbol.toPrimitive](), if present, must be callable and return a primitive, while valueOf or toString will be ignored if they are not callable or return an object. At the end of the process, if successful, the result is guaranteed to be a primitive. The resulting primitive is then subject to further coercions depending on the context.


## Arrow function expressions

An arrow function expression is a compact alternative to a traditional function expression, with some semantic differences and deliberate limitations in usage:

- **Arrow functions don't have their own bindings to this, arguments, or super, and should not be used as methods.**
- **Arrow functions cannot be used as constructors. Calling them with new throws a TypeError. They also don't have access to the new.target keyword.**
- **Arrow functions cannot use yield within their body and cannot be created as generator functions.**

**Syntax**  
```js
() => expression
param => expression
(param) => expression
(param1, paramN) => expression
() => {
  statements
}
param => {
  statements
}
(param1, paramN) => {
  statements
}
```
Rest parameters, default parameters, and destructuring within params are supported, and always require parentheses:
```js
(a, b, ...r) => expression
(a = 400, b = 20, c) => expression
([a, b] = [10, 20]) => expression
({ a, b } = { a: 10, b: 20 }) => expression
```
Arrow functions can be async by prefixing the expression with the async keyword.
```js
async param => expression
async (param1, param2, ...paramN) => {
  statements
}
```

### Description to Arrow function

Let's decompose a traditional anonymous function down to the simplest arrow function step-by-step. Each step along the way is a valid arrow function.

Note: Traditional function expressions and arrow functions have more differences than their syntax. We will introduce their behavior differences in more detail in the next few subsections.

```js
// Traditional anonymous function
(function (a) {
  return a + 100;
});

// 1. Remove the word "function" and place arrow between the argument and opening body brace
(a) => {
  return a + 100;
};

// 2. Remove the body braces and word "return" — the return is implied.
(a) => a + 100;

// 3. Remove the parameter parentheses
a => a + 100;
```
In the example above, both the parentheses around the parameter and the braces around the function body may be omitted. However, they can only be omitted in certain cases.

The parentheses can only be omitted if the function has a single simple parameter. If it has multiple parameters, no parameters, or default, destructured, or rest parameters, the parentheses around the parameter list are required.

```js
// Traditional anonymous function
(function (a, b) {
  return a + b + 100;
});

// Arrow function
(a, b) => a + b + 100;

const a = 4;
const b = 2;

// Traditional anonymous function (no parameters)
(function () {
  return a + b + 100;
});

// Arrow function (no parameters)
() => a + b + 100;
```
The braces can only be omitted if the function directly returns an expression. If the body has statements, the braces are required — and so is the return keyword. Arrow functions cannot guess what or when you want to return.

```js
// Traditional anonymous function
(function (a, b) {
  const chuck = 42;
  return a + b + chuck;
});

// Arrow function
(a, b) => {
  const chuck = 42;
  return a + b + chuck;
};
```
Arrow functions are not inherently associated with a name. If the arrow function needs to call itself, use a named function expression instead. You can also assign the arrow function to a variable, allowing you to refer to it through that variable.

```js
// Traditional Function
function bob(a) {
  return a + 100;
}

// Arrow Function
const bob2 = (a) => a + 100;
```

### Using arrow functions

```js
// An empty arrow function returns undefined
const empty = () => {};

(() => "foobar")();
// Returns "foobar"
// (this is an Immediately Invoked Function Expression)

const simple = (a) => (a > 15 ? 15 : a);
simple(16); // 15
simple(10); // 10

const max = (a, b) => (a > b ? a : b);

// Easy array filtering, mapping, etc.
const arr = [5, 6, 13, 0, 1, 18, 23];

const sum = arr.reduce((a, b) => a + b);
// 66

const even = arr.filter((v) => v % 2 === 0);
// [6, 0, 18]

const double = arr.map((v) => v * 2);
// [10, 12, 26, 0, 2, 36, 46]

// More concise promise chains
promise
  .then((a) => {
    // …
  })
  .then((b) => {
    // …
  });

// Parameterless arrow functions that are visually easier to parse
setTimeout(() => {
  console.log("I happen sooner");
  setTimeout(() => {
    // deeper code
    console.log("I happen later");
  }, 1);
}, 1);
```
### Using call, bind, and apply

The call(), apply(), and bind() methods work as expected with traditional functions, because we establish the scope for each of the methods:

```js
const obj = {
  num: 100,
};

// Setting "num" on globalThis to show how it is NOT used.
globalThis.num = 42;

// A traditional function to operate on "this"
const add = function (a, b, c) {
  return this.num + a + b + c;
};

console.log(add.call(obj, 1, 2, 3)); // 106
console.log(add.apply(obj, [1, 2, 3])); // 106
const boundAdd = add.bind(obj);
console.log(boundAdd(1, 2, 3)); // 106
```
With arrow functions, since our add function is essentially created on the globalThis (global) scope, it will assume this is the globalThis.

```js
const obj = {
  num: 100,
};

// Setting "num" on globalThis to show how it gets picked up.
globalThis.num = 42;

// Arrow function
const add = (a, b, c) => this.num + a + b + c;

console.log(add.call(obj, 1, 2, 3)); // 48
console.log(add.apply(obj, [1, 2, 3])); // 48
const boundAdd = add.bind(obj);
console.log(boundAdd(1, 2, 3)); // 48
```
Perhaps the greatest benefit of using arrow functions is with methods like setTimeout() and EventTarget.prototype.addEventListener() that usually require some kind of closure, call(), apply(), or bind() to ensure that the function is executed in the proper scope.

With traditional function expressions, code like this does not work as expected:

```js
const obj = {
  count: 10,
  doSomethingLater() {
    setTimeout(function () {
      // the function executes on the window scope
      this.count++;
      console.log(this.count);
    }, 300);
  },
};

obj.doSomethingLater(); // logs "NaN", because the property "count" is not in the window scope.
```
With arrow functions, the this scope is more easily preserved:
```js

const obj = {
  count: 10,
  doSomethingLater() {
    // The method syntax binds "this" to the "obj" context.
    setTimeout(() => {
      // Since the arrow function doesn't have its own binding and
      // setTimeout (as a function call) doesn't create a binding
      // itself, the "obj" context of the outer method is used.
      this.count++;
      console.log(this.count);
    }, 300);
  },
};

obj.doSomethingLater(); // logs 11
```

### Object.assign()

The Object.assign() static method copies all enumerable own properties from one or more source objects to a target object. It returns the modified target object.
```js
const target = { a: 1, b: 2 };
const source = { b: 4, c: 5 };

const returnedTarget = Object.assign(target, source);

console.log(target);
// Expected output: Object { a: 1, b: 4, c: 5 }

console.log(returnedTarget === target);
// Expected output: true
```
**Parameters**

- target
  - The target object — what to apply the sources' properties to, which is returned after it is modified. If a primitive value is provided as the target, it will be converted to an object.
- source1, …, sourceN

-  The source object(s) — objects containing the properties you want to apply.

**Return value**

The target object.

**Exceptions**

- TypeError

Thrown in one of the following cases:
  - The target parameter is null or undefined.
  - Assignment of a property on the target object fails; for example, because the property is non-writable on the target object, or because its setter throws an error.

**Description**

Properties in the target object are overwritten by properties in the sources if they have the same key. Later sources' properties overwrite earlier ones.

The Object.assign() method only copies enumerable and own properties from a source object to a target object. It uses [[Get]] on the source and [[Set]] on the target, so it will invoke getters and setters. Therefore it assigns properties, versus copying or defining new properties. This may make it unsuitable for merging new properties into a prototype if the merge sources contain getters.

For copying property definitions (including their enumerability) into prototypes, use Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor() and Object.defineProperty() instead.

Both String and Symbol properties are copied.

In case of an error, for example if a property is non-writable, a TypeError is raised, and the target object is changed if any properties are added before the error is raised.

Note: Object.assign() does not throw on null or undefined sources.